She's not independent enough, she's not.
She's too pretty and too sweet.
But it certainly did occasion a resurgence of... Absolutely, no doubt about it.
And it doesn't seem that she'll be showing any signs of letting her be there.
No, because in the wake of all this, I've told you what Random House did, but Morrow then resuscitated behind a mask, which they had published 20 years before.
And it's just out now in paperback again.
and in hardback, and it did wonderfully.
It was translated into German this time.
I don't know what else.
How about this new book, not new, the book that was founded at Harvard?
The Inheritance.
The Inheritance, which at Dutton is publishing.
Well, The Inheritance, I had read it, and I mentioned it in my biography of
I had read it when it was in the Orchard House, the manuscript, and I didn't think very much of it.
What they've done is a charming book, beautifully manufactured, but I think it's a cream book.
It's a sweet little book.
I don't think Louise ever tried to get it published, and I think maybe she was right.
But as long as... Well, it was a piece of juvenilia, I think, number one, right?
Sort of.
It is and it isn't.
It's about lords and ladies in England.
And it doesn't have much approach to reality, but it's pleasant.
The people at Dutton would like you to believe that this is the story that's mentioned in Little Women, but I don't think so.
It's not mentioned.
Not mentioned as a story, but the one that she's working on.
No, no, no.
Much like that.
But I mentioned it in my biography of her, just in passing, what she was doing then.
And it's not her first book, it's her first novel, you might call it that.
Her first book was Flower Fables, which was written when she was only 16.
There's a lot of stuff here.
I love the line where you said, you will become each other's eyes and ears.
There's no reason to ask you things that you've already answered that you say most eloquently in the book.
I mean, I'll be quoting generously from the book of this piece.
We celebrate.
We continue to celebrate.
The thing is, you don't find... What we were doing, we had some project in mind, going through old titles and stuff.
You don't find these books.
You don't find the small, fascinating little book that is a link in the development, say, of a country or...
They don't exist.
They're not around.
Is that the reason?
I don't know why.
I don't know.
Either they're brought up by us, or the dealers don't bother with them.
They don't bother with them.
I'm talking mostly 17th century French mythology books.
For instance, at one time,
It was very, you saw it in catalogue after catalogue, the letters of a Portuguese nun, either in French or Italian.
You don't see them at all.
You don't see them.
We would buy, could buy, say, six copies within two years.
Now you don't see them in a catalogue.
Well, this happens.
Because the dealer doesn't want to waste his time with what I would call middle-class
Most dealers want the good books.
A lot of dealers restrict themselves to books in English.
We have a customer, two customers, one for the Restoration of Charles II, covering the period 1660 to the 85.
Yeah, but only in English.
Only in English.
Now, formally, you would see tract after tract, and you wouldn't even want to look at them anymore.
If you see it, you don't see any.
You don't see any.
And if you do an English track, a track that formerly, well, it would catch, say, three, four pounds, it's now 30 or 40 pounds.
And what is the American dealer going to do?
If we buy an English track for 40 pounds, that is $100, right?
40 pounds, 60 dollars.
Yeah, it's 1.6.
A pound is now 1.5, so that would be about $60.
Oh, I'd say it's $60.
It's worth about $30.
What are we going to ask this customer?
We can't ask them more than $75 or $80.
So what profit is there by the time we pay the potions and everything?
Another customer is only interested in one deal, etc.
will you print?
To find print is like finding a needle in their hands there.
And when you do find them, it's just impossible.
And, I mean, customers, of course, they get to the point where they're probably not going to spend it.
What's happened, basically, is that formally you could buy abroad, pay, let's say, a decent price, and make some profit.
Most of the American dealers are squeezed at, because the European dealer has your American customer in the first place.
He knows who's buying William Grimm, and he knows who's buying Restoration.
Well, that's quite a change then, isn't it?
The European dealer now... Or, I don't think it's entirely correct.
Well, it's to an extent correct.
Or he charges so much that you're squeezed at.
I mean, what's the use?
a bus spending $300 for a book and charging $375.
It makes no sense.
Yeah, but it may be a lot of fun.
It may be fun, but... We're not ready to give you one.
And if a dealer buys it, and the salesman says, well, we own $375, what are you going to do for me?
Are you going to give me at least 20% off?
What profit do we have in my book?
That's what's happening.
Unless you go over and start carrying on yourself.
By the way, when you were in London, did you see Steve Wiseman?
I did.
How is he happy?
He just, he and his wife just bought a house.
Yeah.
Quite, great.
But it was huge.
It's maybe 50 or 60 of these big biocaps.
You know, there's a bio...
all the records of every book he ever handled and sold in his notes, and that would be a very interesting archive, wouldn't it?
We bought quite a few of them.
To show you what a man he goes like was, we were visiting him, and Bellycup came up and said, oh, Dr. Fulton, John Fulton, the great medical collector, said, Dr. Fulton is downstairs.
An American dealer would have said to us, jump out of the window and drop dead.
He said, tell Dr. Fulton that Ms.
Stern and Ms.
Robsonberger are here and we should come back another time.
How do you like that?
Yes.
And that showed the greatness of the man.
He didn't care whether it was Fulton or Mohammed or whoever.
He was busy.
We were there and he was giving us his full attention, I assure you.
We would not buy in the way that the folks would buy.
We'd buy a hobby first.
But this was he, he goes.
He was interested in the person.
And he did not particularly like him.
But he was very fond of us.
He was fond of you.
He was fond of both of us.
And he gave us great feelings now.
And, I mean, his knowledge and his book
Well, we write in the book, it was really like going to God for us, and Dr. Brahe was very charming.
He was from Munich, and he used the German word, very good English.
He would have quarry with his wife, and his brother gets thrown around.
And it was all very delightful, and he was very, he would drop
pearls, you know, just tell you about a certain book or so forth, so on.
Marvelous.
I think... I mean, these were the great, great dealers.
You mentioned when I came to see you about five or six years ago that you, I think it was the one that you actually, you remember going to see BG over at Belle Green at
at the Morgan Library and how curious she was.
Well, when I worked for Reisner.
That was when you worked for Reisner.
Because he sold to the Morgan quite a bit, well, more than we ever did.
And she was a very imposing person and very, very frightening.
And I came to the threshold of one of them.
She had to use one of those magnificent rooms as her office.
And I came to the threshold, and she looked at me and said very imperiously, come directly into my presence, young lady.
I dropped the book like a hard potato.
But later on, Maddie and I attended a lecture at the morgue, and when Goldschmidt was talking, and the two of them walked down the aisle again.
It was very touching.
They were old, and
Of course, those men had some wine in the morgue with some of its finest books.
It was very, very touching to see the two.
Long after that, Cass Canfield of Harper asked me to write a biography of Velda Costa-Green.
And I said I would if... I said we would if...
If the materials were made available to us, I had a very strong suspicion they would not be.
That's why there's never been a real biography written of her.
It should be a wonderful subject.
Marvellous.
Actually, I have all the correspondence and everything.
I was turned down flat.
They claimed to have no material.
Oh, yeah.
Daddy Adams, Reed was then living in Switzerland.
He said, there's nothing.
He said, don't.
Stop.
Don't.
Don't bother him.
And I didn't.
But you've got a copy.
But now, I got one.
You had got a copy.
Oh, meanwhile, I've gotten a copy of her will, which had a lot of interesting suggestions in it to me.
I couldn't act on anything.
She had Jean Strauss.
She's supposed to be doing a mortgage.
Yes.
She's been working on it for years.
And she has made great discoveries about... Really?
Well, I can't wait to see that.
I'm not going to reveal the liquid.
But in the will, she refers to her jewelry acquired at Cartier's.
From Cartier's.
Now, a librarian
I cannot afford it.
Well, that's all right.
She... She was a unique woman.
A remarkable woman.
Why they should put thumbs down on this, I don't know.
What a story she would be.
Fascinating.
So, and just... She was not just a lawyer.
Oh, I think we all suspect that.
The question is, what, you know.
So, you think Jean will have all of this in her new book?
Jean said to tell him that she was a wonderful job, that she's got quite some
How's she coming with that book?
She's coming.
She hopes to finish it in June.
Oh, good.
So, be along.
Her Alice James book was just wonderful.
Remember the book she read on Alice James?
Mm-hmm.
You know, the sister of Henry.
She's a very charming woman.
Yeah, I interviewed her on that, because I do a weekly book call.
I think I've got plenty of material, and if it's okay with you, I'd like to shoot a couple of pictures.
Sure.
I would love to sign the book.
Did you say that again, please?
He said, in this... We're talking about... Let's set the scene again.
Who are we talking about?
You want to take this.
This sounds wonderful.
Rajner said to Lessing Rosenwald, in this very suit, Herr Rosenwald, I escaped from the Nazis.
Well, I looked up because he had bought that suit at Broad Street a week earlier.
That's
and Lessing Rosenwald, the tears ran down his cheeks, and he bought a very rare, I think it was an incunable, the first musical work of Gavurius, for about a thousand dollars, because he was so moved.
Poor Mr. Reich and his
escape from the Nazis.
He didn't escape from the Nazis at all.
He took refuge in Switzerland for a year before he came over here.
So, anyway, Rosenwald, of course, fought copiously.
Marvelous.
Yeah, he was amazing.
Now, there's one I missed seeing.
I missed Rosenwald.
I missed John Fleming.
I mean,
I missed being able to, you know... You talked about Priscilla Jougallis.
Priscilla Jougallis worked for farming.
That's right.
I would love to have been able to talk to him.
And his stuff is still sealed, you know.
Still sealed.
Here at the Grozier Club.
Well, of course, it's a direct line from Rosenbach.
That's... Flemming worked for Rosenbach.
He brought him in as a kid, I guess.
He was...
We have a book in here that should be in the Grosier Club, speaking of the Grosier Club, because their copy is miserable, and this copy was owned by Ho.
How would you spell preeminent?
P-R-E-E, right?
P-R-E.
Just one A?
You think?
Preeminent.
I think there's a height.
I think.
Well, I'm going to put one, okay?
There's that diuresis or something.
Or two dots.
And I'm wild.
I don't know.
This copy of our Fournier, Emmanuel Typographique, was owned by the founder of the Grosje Club.
And why they don't buy it?
Well, I know why they don't buy it.
They don't want to pay for it.
They want it given to them.
Oh.
All those millions of members of the Grosje Club.
You'd think so, wouldn't you?
You would think so.
Untight founding, that's how it all began.
Gorgeous car.
Oh, excuse me, Peter.
You read the book for Doubleday, right?
we suggest this?
No, I called them, in fact.
I called the Biblio just as soon as I heard.
You know Marlee Russoff at Doubleday?
Her name is Marlee Russoff.
She's a vice president over there.
She's a very good friend of mine, and she alerted me to this book, you know, and I said, thank you, and I'll do a piece for Biblio.
So I called Biblio, and I said, look, if anybody else suggests it, just
You know, let them know I'm doing it.
Because I have a regular column every month at the front of a magazine.
It's starting to get a lot of circulation, you know.
I have my email address in there.
I'm now getting 10 email letters a week.
People just, yeah, from all over the world.
We don't have email.
We don't have a computer.
We're very old British.
We're going to get a computer.
It's a little late in the day for us to stop.
I don't think you need it.
Well, now, for instance, Quaritch has its latest catalog.
It's on the web.
Yeah.
And more and more will happen.
You will be left out more and more.
I'll never master it, but poor Maddie will have to.
I can't.
Of course, the kids, my young... They can teach you.
It's amazing how they... I have problems.
I yell for my younger daughter, Nicole, Nicole.
I'll have to take a course of it.
I have a cousin who's very active, and I'm so comfortable with both the typewriter.
Good.
Thank you.
I'll give a couple of pictures.
Okay, where do you want us to go?
Well, let me just set up the camera.
Up to the light or outside?
I have a flash, so it doesn't really matter.
So it doesn't matter what happens.
It doesn't matter.
I think where you're comfortable.
This room is not meant for books.
Well, my light went out.
We'll have to try to replace it.
So comfortable here.
Get ready to mention something about this.